reference field-custom-filter-api (PR from TinaCMS) (#2229)
tinacms/tina.io: content/docs/reference/types/reference.mdx

    }
```

### Filter reference

> If you have a long list of reference item, you can filter them in the schema before build time using `ui.collectionFilter`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a long list of reference items, you can filter them in the schema before build time using the `ui.collectionFilter` field.
```

> > Senario: You have a list of author in different location, and you only want the reference select in your post collection to show the desired location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Senario: You have a list of authors in different locations, and you only want the references selected in your collection to be authors from one location.
```

Reviewer: Alright, I agree we can keep your phrasing. Is this alright?

```suggestion
> Senario: You have a list of authors in different locations, and you only want the reference selected in your post collection to show authors from a specific location.
```

```typescript
const referenceField = {
  label: 'Author',
  name: 'author',
  type: 'reference',
  ui: {
    collectionFilter: {
      author: {
        location: 'Australia'
      }
    },
  },
  collections: ['author'],
}
```

> **Figure: **Show author at location `Australia`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to filter references options based on a list of values.

```

```typescript
const referenceField = {
  label: 'Author',
  name: 'author',
  type: 'reference',
  ui: {
    collectionFilter: {
      author: {
        location: ['Australia','United States']
      }
    },
  },
  collections: ['author'],
}
```

> **Figure: **Show author at location `Australia` and `United State`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference fields on multiple collections can be filtered by the values in either collection.
```

```typescript
const referenceField = {
  label: 'Author & Post',
  name: 'author and post',
  type: 'reference',
  ui: {
    collectionFilter: {
      author: {
        location: ['Australia','United States']
      },
    post: {
        status: 'published',
      },
    },
  },
  collections: ['author', 'post'],
}
```

> **Figure: **Multiple filter for multiple referenced collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
